103B - WRITING TASK 2

Video Games

Video games are becoming all the more popular in the couple of decades. As young people spend more and more of their time playing on the computer, the question naturally arises: are video games just a waste of their precious time? Or do they promote the development of young people by teaching important skills? I believe that video games, just like many other pieces of technology, can actually increase productivity and aid with development provided that they are used wisely. 

Video games, as the name suggests, are first and foremost games. Playing is a necessary part of children's development. By playing, children develop coordination, communication and decision making. Even in nature, playing is an activity employed by many intelligent species. Lions, cats, dogs, wolves all play when at a young age and some continue playing when they grow older. Playing is essential for animals. It improves their reaction times and teaches movement patterns and behaviours necessary for fighting and survival.

Thus, it is irrational to assume that young humans do not benefit from playing. On the contrary, children should play a lot and this is a claim that is backed by a lot of research. Nevertheless, there are many ways to play other than video games. Physical games or sport is of course a great alternative. But as civilization becomes more elaborate and complicated as years go by, so should games. This is the reason why board games like chess or its ancient variants were developed in the first place. Strategy and planning became important for humans. 

In the age of information and digitalization, a transition from board and card games to video games is natural and expected. Video games add a new level of complexity and functionality to gaming. Multiplayer gaming enables children to communicate and build and maintain small video gaming communities on their own. Puzzle games are more immersive and fun and strategy games are more realistic. The key to supporting the development of young people is not to stop them from playing video games, but to assist them with choosing what games to play and how much to play. 

Celebrities

It is often heard that it is completely hypoctitical for celebrities to complain when media violate their privacy. This is because they benefit greatly from media exposure which is basically a part of the job they chose to do. Others say that journalists should practice decency and discretion and celebrities have every right to be upset when this is not the case. I personally think that the truth lies somewhere in the middle. 

First of all, it should be established that media exposure is definitely beneficial for most celebrities. It is in fact not uncommon for celebrities to seek for exposure in ways that are not considered appropriate. Many of them make intriguing statements about their personal life or express opinions that are not really theirs, just so they can capture the spotlight for a few days. As a matter of fact, publicity and fame might be the factor that determines if an actor will get a role or a singer will lead a certain band.

It should be noted, however, that there are celebrities who do not enjoy being in the center of attention and have many times talked openly about it. Talented music composers, scientists and performers of all kinds have many times acquired fame through their personal achievements and not a persona that they advertised. They are considered celebrities but they often prefer to continue their important work alone, keeping a low profile, away from the spotlight. It is in these cases that intrusion on their privacy by the press is absolutely indiscrete and unethical. 

In the end, privacy violation should not be encouraged in any case. As a matter of fact, in most countries privacy is protected by the law. Evreryone has the right to keep their personal life safe and secret. These ethical lines get a little more blurry when someone already uses their personal life as a means to increase publicity though. In this case, I think they should decide if they want to trade money and fame for a more private life or just accept that intrusions will continue happening and move on. 
